example-problems/grpc-testing-missing-truth/README.md, before:

# grpc-testing missing Truth dependency

This project demonstrates that grpc-testing:1.18.0 is missing the dependency to Truth library
when running tests.
The only class `InProcessTransportTest`, which is copied from grpc-java/grpc-core module,
extends grpc-testing's `AbstractTransportTest`.
The test fails because of `NoClassDefFoundError: com/google/common/truth/Truth`.

## How to run

Run `mvn test` to reproduce the issue.

```
grpc-testing-missing-truth $ mvn test
...
-------------------------------------------------------
 T E S T S
-------------------------------------------------------
Running io.grpc.inprocess.InProcessTransportTest
Tests run: 40, Failures: 0, Errors: 2, Skipped: 1, Time elapsed: 2.484 sec <<< FAILURE!
basicStream(io.grpc.inprocess.InProcessTransportTest)  Time elapsed: 0.018 sec  <<< ERROR!
java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: com/google/common/truth/Truth
	at io.grpc.internal.testing.AbstractTransportTest.basicStream(AbstractTransportTest.java:771)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
	at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
	at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:498)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod$1.runReflectiveCall(FrameworkMethod.java:50)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.model.ReflectiveCallable.run(ReflectiveCallable.java:12)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod.invokeExplosively(FrameworkMethod.java:47)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.InvokeMethod.evaluate(InvokeMethod.java:17)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.RunBefores.evaluate(RunBefores.java:26)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.RunAfters.evaluate(RunAfters.java:27)
	at org.junit.rules.ExpectedException$ExpectedExceptionStatement.evaluate(ExpectedException.java:239)
	at org.junit.rules.RunRules.evaluate(RunRules.java:20)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.runLeaf(ParentRunner.java:325)
	at org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.runChild(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.java:78)
	at org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.runChild(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.java:57)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$3.run(ParentRunner.java:290)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$1.schedule(ParentRunner.java:71)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.runChildren(ParentRunner.java:288)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.access$000(ParentRunner.java:58)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$2.evaluate(ParentRunner.java:268)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.run(ParentRunner.java:363)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.execute(JUnit4Provider.java:252)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.executeTestSet(JUnit4Provider.java:141)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.invoke(JUnit4Provider.java:112)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
	at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
	at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:498)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.util.ReflectionUtils.invokeMethodWithArray(ReflectionUtils.java:189)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory$ProviderProxy.invoke(ProviderFactory.java:165)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory.invokeProvider(ProviderFactory.java:85)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.runSuitesInProcess(ForkedBooter.java:115)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.main(ForkedBooter.java:75)
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: com.google.common.truth.Truth
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:382)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:424)
	at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:349)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:357)
	... 34 more
```

# Diagnosis

This project has dependency to `io.grpc:grpc-testing:1.18.0` (with `scope:test`).
`io.grpc:grpc-testing:1.18.0` has `com.google.truth:truth:0.42` (with `scope:test`).

However, Maven does not provide the `truth` dependency when this project runs
Maven's `test` lifecycle.
This is because Maven omits test-scoped transitive dependencies of a test-scope dependency.
[Maven Dependency Scope][1] explains cases of different scopes in transitive dependencies.

[1]: https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#Dependency_Scope

Commit message:

Mention future fix for grpc 1.20.0.

example-problems/grpc-testing-missing-truth/README.md, after:

# grpc-testing missing Truth dependency

This project demonstrates that grpc-testing:1.18.0 is missing the dependency to Truth library
when running tests.
The only class `InProcessTransportTest`, which is copied from grpc-java/grpc-core module,
extends grpc-testing's `AbstractTransportTest`.
The test fails because of `NoClassDefFoundError: com/google/common/truth/Truth`.

This missing dependency will be fixed in grpc-testing:1.20.0.

## How to run

Run `mvn test` to reproduce the issue.

```
grpc-testing-missing-truth $ mvn test
...
-------------------------------------------------------
 T E S T S
-------------------------------------------------------
Running io.grpc.inprocess.InProcessTransportTest
Tests run: 40, Failures: 0, Errors: 2, Skipped: 1, Time elapsed: 2.484 sec <<< FAILURE!
basicStream(io.grpc.inprocess.InProcessTransportTest)  Time elapsed: 0.018 sec  <<< ERROR!
java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: com/google/common/truth/Truth
	at io.grpc.internal.testing.AbstractTransportTest.basicStream(AbstractTransportTest.java:771)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
	at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
	at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:498)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod$1.runReflectiveCall(FrameworkMethod.java:50)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.model.ReflectiveCallable.run(ReflectiveCallable.java:12)
	at org.junit.runners.model.FrameworkMethod.invokeExplosively(FrameworkMethod.java:47)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.InvokeMethod.evaluate(InvokeMethod.java:17)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.RunBefores.evaluate(RunBefores.java:26)
	at org.junit.internal.runners.statements.RunAfters.evaluate(RunAfters.java:27)
	at org.junit.rules.ExpectedException$ExpectedExceptionStatement.evaluate(ExpectedException.java:239)
	at org.junit.rules.RunRules.evaluate(RunRules.java:20)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.runLeaf(ParentRunner.java:325)
	at org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.runChild(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.java:78)
	at org.junit.runners.BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.runChild(BlockJUnit4ClassRunner.java:57)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$3.run(ParentRunner.java:290)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$1.schedule(ParentRunner.java:71)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.runChildren(ParentRunner.java:288)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.access$000(ParentRunner.java:58)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner$2.evaluate(ParentRunner.java:268)
	at org.junit.runners.ParentRunner.run(ParentRunner.java:363)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.execute(JUnit4Provider.java:252)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.executeTestSet(JUnit4Provider.java:141)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.junit4.JUnit4Provider.invoke(JUnit4Provider.java:112)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
	at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
	at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
	at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:498)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.util.ReflectionUtils.invokeMethodWithArray(ReflectionUtils.java:189)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory$ProviderProxy.invoke(ProviderFactory.java:165)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ProviderFactory.invokeProvider(ProviderFactory.java:85)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.runSuitesInProcess(ForkedBooter.java:115)
	at org.apache.maven.surefire.booter.ForkedBooter.main(ForkedBooter.java:75)
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: com.google.common.truth.Truth
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:382)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:424)
	at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:349)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:357)
	... 34 more
```

# Diagnosis

This project has dependency to `io.grpc:grpc-testing:1.18.0` (with `scope:test`).
`io.grpc:grpc-testing:1.18.0` has `com.google.truth:truth:0.42` (with `scope:test`).

However, Maven does not provide the `truth` dependency when this project runs
Maven's `test` lifecycle.
This is because Maven omits test-scoped transitive dependencies of a test-scope dependency.
[Maven Dependency Scope][1] explains cases of different scopes in transitive dependencies.

[1]: https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-mechanism.html#Dependency_Scope
