library-best-practices/JLBP-9.md, before:

[JLBP-9] Support the minimum Java version of your consumers
-----------------------------------------------------------

If a library B requiring Java 1.7 depends on a library A requiring Java 1.7, and
library A bumps its minimum version to Java 1.8, then library B cannot pick up
the new version of library A until it also bumps its own minimum Java
version. This can result in a situation where the ecosystem is stuck on older
library versions, preventing the pickup of important things like security fixes,
and it can also lead to diamond dependency conflicts where no version works for
all consumers. Thus, libraries should make sure their actively-maintained
consumers advance their minimum version of Java before they advance it
themselves. (Waiting for every last consumer could block an upgrade permanently,
due to cases like abandoned projects.)

As an alternative, if you need to support both consumers on the old version of
Java and consumers wanting features provided by a newer version of Java, a
long-term support (LTS) release can be created to continue supporting the old
Java version, and a new major version of the library can be released with a
higher minimum Java version. The Java package and maven ID should be kept the
same in the new major version.

Commit message:

This is really about forks, not LTS per se.

library-best-practices/JLBP-9.md, after:

[JLBP-9] Support the minimum Java version of your consumers
-----------------------------------------------------------

Imagine library B depends on library A and both work with Java 8.
If library A releases a new version that requires Java 11, library B cannot upgrade
unless it also starts requiring Java 11. 
If library B is not able to do that—for instance because it must work in an environment
such as App Engine that does not yet support Java 11—it must keep using the older
version of library B, missing out on security and bug fixes in the newer version.
This can also lead to diamond dependency conflicts where no version works for
all consumers. Thus, libraries should make sure their actively-maintained
consumers advance their minimum version of Java before they advance it
themselves. (Waiting for every last consumer could block an upgrade permanently,
due to cases like abandoned projects.)

As an alternative, to support both consumers on the old version of
Java and consumers wanting features provided by a newer version of Java, 
you can continue development in two forks, version N for the older version of
Java and version N+1 for the newer version of Java.
The Java package and Maven coordinates should be the same in the new major version.
