library-best-practices/JLBP-16.md, before:

[JLBP-16] Ensure version alignment of dependencies for consumers
----------------------------------------------------------------

For multi-module projects, this best practice assumes you have already applied
[JLBP-15](JLBP-15.md), so that your project has a BOM.

### Achieving version alignment

- Version alignment is defined in the [glossary](glossary.md).
- Version alignment increases the likelihood that consumers' build systems pick
  the right versions of direct and transitive dependencies, reducing the number
  of conflicts.
- As noted in the definition, to fix a version misalignment caused by a shorter
  path to a version of a dependency that is not the upper bound in the
  dependency tree, a direct dependency needs to be added so that Maven consumers
  will pick the correct version.
- See the details specific to each build system in the sections below.

### Maven

- Use `requireUpperBoundDeps` enforcement to ensure that you are using the
  highest version of each dependency in your dependency tree.
- To ensure that dependencies between modules in the project are consistent,
  have the parent POM import the library's own BOM into its
  `<dependencyManagement>` section.
  - [Example import in google-cloud-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-java/blob/36409f5b1df89609eaef92d09cebea97931339bd/google-cloud-clients/pom.xml#L174).
- To ensure that usage of dependencies is consistent, for any direct
  dependencies that have a BOM of their own, import those BOMs in a
  `<dependencyManagement>` section.
  - If multiple imported BOMs manage the same dependency, use the
    `<dependencyManagement>` of the parent POM to select a compatible version,
    typically the highest.
    - Order doesn't matter for the override, because all explicit version
      declarations in dependencyManagement take precedence over all BOM
      imports. (Order between BOMs matters - the earliest import of a dependency
      takes precedence over later imports of the same dependency.)
- For direct dependencies that don't have a BOM (for example, Joda-Time), make
  sure only one pom.xml defines the version, so that the library doesn't
  accidentally depend on different versions in different modules.
  - The first option is to specify dependency versions in the
    `<dependencyManagement>` section of the parent POM. Use this option by
    default because it is the most structured.
    - When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, omit the version
      number so that the version from the parent's `<dependencyManagement>`
      section takes effect.
  - The second option is to use version properties in the parent that are
    referenced by child modules.
    - When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, use the Maven
      property declared in the parent.
- For any transitive dependency that fails a `requireUpperBoundDeps` check, add
  the dependency as a direct dependency so that the path to the correct version
  is shorter, leading Maven to pick it instead of the wrong version.
- Have each module POM inherit from the parent POM of the library so that the
  parent's `<dependencyManagement>` section is used.

### Gradle

- Declare variables defining dependency versions in a shared `ext` section in
  the root `build.gradle` file, and use those variables in any place declaring a
  dependency.

Commit message:

Generalizing 'version alignment', adding 'upper version alignment' (#210)

library-best-practices/JLBP-16.md, after:

[JLBP-16] Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for consumers
----------------------------------------------------------------------

For multi-module projects, this best practice assumes you have already applied
[JLBP-15](JLBP-15.md), so that your project has a BOM.

### Achieving upper version alignment

- Upper version alignment is defined in the [glossary](glossary.md).
- Upper version alignment increases the likelihood that consumers' build systems
  select the right versions of direct and transitive dependencies, reducing the
  number of conflicts.
- As noted in the definition, to fix a version misalignment caused by a shorter
  path to a version of a dependency that is not the upper bound in the
  dependency tree, a direct dependency needs to be added so that Maven consumers
  select the correct version.
- See the details specific to each build system in the sections below.

### Maven

- Use `requireUpperBoundDeps` enforcement to ensure that you are using the
  highest version of each dependency in your dependency tree.
- To ensure that dependencies between modules in the project are consistent,
  have the parent POM import the library's own BOM into its
  `<dependencyManagement>` section.
  - [Example import in google-cloud-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-java/blob/36409f5b1df89609eaef92d09cebea97931339bd/google-cloud-clients/pom.xml#L174).
- To ensure that usage of dependencies is consistent, for any direct
  dependencies that have a BOM of their own, import those BOMs in a
  `<dependencyManagement>` section.
  - If multiple imported BOMs manage the same dependency, use the
    `<dependencyManagement>` of the parent POM to select a compatible version,
    typically the highest.
    - Order doesn't matter for the override, because all explicit version
      declarations in dependencyManagement take precedence over all BOM
      imports. (Order between BOMs matters - the earliest import of a dependency
      takes precedence over later imports of the same dependency.)
- For direct dependencies that don't have a BOM (for example, Joda-Time), make
  sure only one pom.xml defines the version, so that the library doesn't
  accidentally depend on different versions in different modules.
  - The first option is to specify dependency versions in the
    `<dependencyManagement>` section of the parent POM. Use this option by
    default because it is the most structured.
    - When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, omit the version
      number so that the version from the parent's `<dependencyManagement>`
      section takes effect.
  - The second option is to use version properties in the parent that are
    referenced by child modules.
    - When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, use the Maven
      property declared in the parent.
- For any transitive dependency that fails a `requireUpperBoundDeps` check, add
  the dependency as a direct dependency so that the path to the correct version
  is shorter, leading Maven to select it instead of the wrong version.
- Have each module POM inherit from the parent POM of the library so that the
  parent's `<dependencyManagement>` section is used.

### Gradle

- Declare variables defining dependency versions in a shared `ext` section in
  the root `build.gradle` file, and use those variables in any place declaring a
  dependency.
