---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-22
permalink: /JLBP-22
---

# Declare all direct dependencies

If your code references a class—for example, by invoking a method in that class—declare a dependency that includes that class in your pom.xml, build.gradle,
or equivalent. In Bazel this practice is called "strict deps".

Code should not call methods, reference fields, or instantiate classes from _indirect_ dependencies. These are dependencies of the declared dependencies. Projects that rely on indirect dependencies tend to break in unexpected ways when direct dependencies are upgraded. 

For example, your project might declare a dependency on the 
Google HTTP Java Client which
itself depends on the Apache HTTP Components. If so, it is possible to use the `org.apache.http.client.utils.URLEncodedUtils` class in your own project without
explicitly declaring a dependency on Apache HTTP Components. However, you should
add the dependency anyway. This way if a future version of the
Google HTTP Java Client no longer depends on Apache HTTP Components, your code
still compiles. Strict dependencies also help static analysis tools better understand a project.

This doesn't only happen when a project itself is upgraded. It can also
happen when dependency mediation selects a different version of a library's dependency 
that does not include the necessary indirect dependency. Relying on indirect dependencies can cause problems for your customers that you don't see. 

IDE autocomplete suggestions are a common way projects come to depend on 
indirect dependencies. When importing a new class, most IDEs only look to see if it's present in the classpath, not whether it comes from a direct or indirect dependency.

The `mvn dependency:analyze` command lists dependencies a Maven project uses 
but hasn't declared:

```
[WARNING] Used undeclared dependencies found:
[WARNING]    org.apache.maven.resolver:maven-resolver-impl:jar:1.4.1:compile
[WARNING]    org.apache.maven.resolver:maven-resolver-api:jar:1.6.1:compile
[WARNING]    org.apache.maven:maven-core:jar:3.6.3:compile
[WARNING]    org.apache.maven:maven-model-builder:jar:3.6.3:compile
```

These should be added to your pom.xml file. 

The tool also lists dependencies the project declares but doesn't use:

```
[WARNING] Unused declared dependencies found:
[WARNING]    com.google.cloud.tools:dependencies:jar:1.5.5-SNAPSHOT:compile
[WARNING]    com.google.truth:truth:jar:1.0.1:test
[WARNING]    junit:junit:jar:4.13.1:test
[WARNING]    org.mockito:mockito-core:jar:3.5.15:test
```

However its analysis of which dependencies aren't used is not as accurate 
as its analysis of which dependencies are used. In particular,
it reports dependencies used through reflection as unused, so be cautious when
removing any allegedly unused dependencies. 
 