---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-16
permalink: /JLBP-16
---
# Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for consumers

The version of each dependency added to the classpath should the highest version in the dependency tree.
Upper version alignment ensures that upgrading packages to compatible higher versions doesn't introduce new linkage conflicts.

## Achieving upper version alignment

Upper version alignment increases the likelihood that build systems
select the right versions of direct and transitive dependencies, reducing the
number of conflicts.

See the details specific to each build system in the following sections.

## Maven

Use the [`requireUpperBoundDeps` Maven enforcer
rule](https://maven.apache.org/enforcer/enforcer-rules/requireUpperBoundDeps.html)
to ensure that you are using the
highest version of each dependency in your dependency tree.

For any transitive dependency that fails the `requireUpperBoundDeps` check, add
the dependency as a direct dependency so that the path to the correct version
is shorter, leading Maven to select it instead of the wrong version.

To ensure that dependencies between modules in the project are consistent,
the project [should publish a BOM](JLBP-0015.md) and
the parent POM should import this BOM in its `<dependencyManagement>` section.
Each module's POM should inherit from the parent POM of the library.


  - [Example import in google-cloud-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-java/blob/36409f5b1df89609eaef92d09cebea97931339bd/google-cloud-clients/pom.xml#L174).

To ensure consistency of dependencies from outside the project:

  - If the dependency publishes a BOM, import that BOM in the `<dependencyManagement>` section.
  
    If multiple imported BOMs manage the same dependency, use the
    `<dependencyManagement>` of the parent POM to select a compatible version,
    typically the highest.
    Order doesn't matter for the override, because all explicit version
    declarations in `<dependencyManagement>` take precedence over all BOM
    imports. Order between BOMs does matter. The first import of a dependency
    takes precedence over later imports of the same dependency.

  - If a dependency does not have have a BOM (for example, Joda-Time), make
    sure only one pom.xml defines the version, so that the library doesn't
    accidentally depend on different versions in different modules.

    The first option is to specify the version of the dependency in the
    `<dependencyManagement>` section of the parent POM.
    When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, omit the version
    number so that the version from the parent's `<dependencyManagement>`
    section takes effect.

    The second option is to define a version property such as
    `jodatime.version` in the parent POM. Then use this property 
    to specify versions everywhere the dependency is imported.

## Gradle

Declare variables defining dependency versions in a shared `ext` section in
the root `build.gradle` file, and use those variables in any place declaring a
dependency.
