docs/JLBP-0003.md, before:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-3
permalink: /JLBP-3
---
# Use Semantic Versioning

Semantic versioning is a convention in which "version numbers and the way they
change convey meaning about the underlying code and what has been modified from one 
version to the next." It has a [detailed specification](https://semver.org)
that lays out a number of rules designed to align with common practice. 

- For the purpose of semantic versioning, the stable surface of a library
  serves as its public API.
- Annotations can mark features (classes, methods, etc.) as unstable, 
  and thus not part of the public API, such that semantic versioning rules do not apply. 
  - Examples of annotations:
    - Guava uses `@Beta`
    - grpc-java uses `@ExperimentalApi`
    - Google-cloud-java uses `@BetaApi`, `@InternalApi`, and `@InternalExtensionOnly`
  - Library documentation should point users to a tool (or tools) that can
    help them detect when they are using features marked with these
    annotations.
  - Even though semantic versioning rules don't apply to unstable features, it is
    recommended to bump a library's minor version if unstable features have
    surface breakages.
- Tools are available to help identify accidental incompatibilities within a
  major version. Examples:
  - [Java API Compliance Checker](https://lvc.github.io/japi-compliance-checker/)
  - [Clirr Maven Plugin](http://www.mojohaus.org/clirr-maven-plugin/)
  - [Java API Tracker: Compatibility report for grpc-core](
    https://abi-laboratory.pro/index.php?view=timeline&lang=java&l=grpc-core)
- Examples of breaking changes to a public API that require a new major
  version:
  - Upgrading to an incompatible dependency that is exposed through a
    library's public API. For dependencies that follow semantic versioning, this happens
    when a dependency is bumped to a higher major version.
  - Changing a method signature
  - Removing a method (deprecated or not)
- Examples of additions that require a new minor version:
  - Upgrading a dependency to a new minor version (compatible, but new
    features) that is exposed through a library's public API
  - Adding a new class
  - Adding a new method
- Special case: Maintainers do not have to increment a library's major version when
  a release is only to drop the support of an end-of-life Java version that is not widely used by
  the consumers of the library.

Commit message:

Give examples of adding methods to interfaces as incompatible (#1503)
* Give examples of adding methods to interfaces as incompatible

@suztomo since this is one of the cases we see most frequently

* Update JLBP-0003.md

docs/JLBP-0003.md, after:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-3
permalink: /JLBP-3
---
# Use Semantic Versioning

Semantic versioning is a convention in which "version numbers and the way they
change convey meaning about the underlying code and what has been modified from one 
version to the next." It has a [detailed specification](https://semver.org)
that lays out a number of rules designed to align with common practice. 

- For the purpose of semantic versioning, the stable surface of a library
  serves as its public API.
- Annotations can mark features (classes, methods, etc.) as unstable, 
  and thus not part of the public API, such that semantic versioning rules do not apply. 
  - Examples of annotations:
    - Guava uses `@Beta`
    - grpc-java uses `@ExperimentalApi`
    - Google-cloud-java uses `@BetaApi`, `@InternalApi`, and `@InternalExtensionOnly`
  - Library documentation should point users to a tool (or tools) that can
    help them detect when they are using features marked with these
    annotations.
  - Even though semantic versioning rules don't apply to unstable features, it is
    recommended to bump a library's minor version if unstable features have
    surface breakages.
- Tools are available to help identify accidental incompatibilities within a
  major version. Examples:
  - [Java API Compliance Checker](https://lvc.github.io/japi-compliance-checker/)
  - [Clirr Maven Plugin](http://www.mojohaus.org/clirr-maven-plugin/)
  - [Java API Tracker: Compatibility report for grpc-core](
    https://abi-laboratory.pro/index.php?view=timeline&lang=java&l=grpc-core)
- Examples of breaking changes to a public API that require a new major
  version:
  - Upgrading to an incompatible dependency that is exposed through a
    library's public API. For dependencies that follow semantic versioning, this happens
    when a dependency is bumped to a higher major version.
  - Changing a method signature
  - Removing a method (deprecated or not)
  - Adding a method to an interface without a default implementation
  - Adding an abstract method to a class
- Examples of additions that require a new minor version:
  - Upgrading a dependency to a new minor version (compatible, but new
    features) that is exposed through a library's public API
  - Adding a new class
  - Adding a new method
- Special case: Maintainers do not have to increment a library's major version when
  a release is only to drop the support of an end-of-life Java version that is not widely used by
  the consumers of the library.
