docs/JLBP-0016.md, before:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-16
permalink: /JLBP-16
---
# Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for consumers

For multi-module projects, this best practice assumes you have already applied
[JLBP-15](JLBP-0015.md), so that your project has a BOM.

Upper version alignment is defined in the [glossary](glossary.md).

## Achieving upper version alignment

Upper version alignment increases the likelihood that consumers' build systems
select the right versions of direct and transitive dependencies, reducing the
number of conflicts.

As noted in the definition, to fix a version misalignment caused by a shorter
path to a version of a dependency that is not the upper bound in the
dependency tree, a direct dependency needs to be added so that Maven consumers
select the correct version.

See the details specific to each build system in the following sections.

## Maven

Use `requireUpperBoundDeps` enforcement to ensure that you are using the
highest version of each dependency in your dependency tree.

To ensure that dependencies between modules in the project are consistent,
the parent POM should import the library's own BOM into its
`<dependencyManagement>` section.

  - [Example import in google-cloud-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-java/blob/36409f5b1df89609eaef92d09cebea97931339bd/google-cloud-clients/pom.xml#L174).

To ensure that usage of dependencies is consistent, for any direct
dependencies that have a BOM of their own, import those BOMs in a
`<dependencyManagement>` section.

  - If multiple imported BOMs manage the same dependency, use the
    `<dependencyManagement>` of the parent POM to select a compatible version,
    typically the highest.
  - Order doesn't matter for the override, because all explicit version
    declarations in dependencyManagement take precedence over all BOM
    imports. (Order between BOMs matters - the earliest import of a dependency
    takes precedence over later imports of the same dependency.)

For direct dependencies that don't have a BOM (for example, Joda-Time), make
sure only one pom.xml defines the version, so that the library doesn't
accidentally depend on different versions in different modules.

  - The first option is to specify dependency versions in the
    `<dependencyManagement>` section of the parent POM. Use this option by
    default because it is the most structured.

    When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, omit the version
    number so that the version from the parent's `<dependencyManagement>`
    section takes effect.

  - The second option is to use version properties in the parent that are
    referenced by child modules.

    When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, use the Maven
    property declared in the parent.

For any transitive dependency that fails a `requireUpperBoundDeps` check, add
the dependency as a direct dependency so that the path to the correct version
is shorter, leading Maven to select it instead of the wrong version.

Have each module POM inherit from the parent POM of the library so that the
parent's `<dependencyManagement>` section is used.

## Gradle

Declare variables defining dependency versions in a shared `ext` section in
the root `build.gradle` file, and use those variables in any place declaring a
dependency.

Commit message:

Clarify that the use of version properties for a single artifact is an anti-pattern
Version properties have side-effects, when you have two different artifacts that need to align on the same version, a version property is less risk than duplication of the version number... a BOM would have been better, but if the producers of your dependencies have not seen fit to provide a BOM...

Having a version property that is used against one and only one `groupId:artifactId` (unless say you need to place that dependency within a `/project/build/plugins/plugin/dependencies`) exposes greater risks and complicates the pom unnecessarily

docs/JLBP-0016.md, after:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-16
permalink: /JLBP-16
---
# Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for consumers

For multi-module projects, this best practice assumes you have already applied
[JLBP-15](JLBP-0015.md), so that your project has a BOM.

Upper version alignment is defined in the [glossary](glossary.md).

## Achieving upper version alignment

Upper version alignment increases the likelihood that consumers' build systems
select the right versions of direct and transitive dependencies, reducing the
number of conflicts.

As noted in the definition, to fix a version misalignment caused by a shorter
path to a version of a dependency that is not the upper bound in the
dependency tree, a direct dependency needs to be added so that Maven consumers
select the correct version.

See the details specific to each build system in the following sections.

## Maven

Use `requireUpperBoundDeps` enforcement to ensure that you are using the
highest version of each dependency in your dependency tree.

To ensure that dependencies between modules in the project are consistent,
the parent POM should import the library's own BOM into its
`<dependencyManagement>` section.

  - [Example import in google-cloud-java](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-java/blob/36409f5b1df89609eaef92d09cebea97931339bd/google-cloud-clients/pom.xml#L174).

To ensure that usage of dependencies is consistent, for any direct
dependencies that have a BOM of their own, import those BOMs in a
`<dependencyManagement>` section.

  - If multiple imported BOMs manage the same dependency, use the
    `<dependencyManagement>` of the parent POM to select a compatible version,
    typically the highest.
  - Order doesn't matter for the override, because all explicit version
    declarations in dependencyManagement take precedence over all BOM
    imports. (Order between BOMs matters - the earliest import of a dependency
    takes precedence over later imports of the same dependency.)

For direct dependencies that don't have a BOM (for example, Joda-Time), make
sure only one pom.xml defines the version, so that the library doesn't
accidentally depend on different versions in different modules.

  - The first option is to specify dependency versions in the
    `<dependencyManagement>` section of the parent POM. Use this option by
    default because it is the most structured.

    When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, omit the version
    number so that the version from the parent's `<dependencyManagement>`
    section takes effect.

  - The second option is to use version properties in the parent that are
    referenced by child modules.

    This option should only be used in the case where you have multiple
    artifacts that need align on the same version and the producers
    of those artifacts have not provided a BOM.

    When declaring a dependency anywhere in the project, use the Maven
    property declared in the parent.

For any transitive dependency that fails a `requireUpperBoundDeps` check, add
the dependency as a direct dependency so that the path to the correct version
is shorter, leading Maven to select it instead of the wrong version.

Have each module POM inherit from the parent POM of the library so that the
parent's `<dependencyManagement>` section is used.

## Gradle

Declare variables defining dependency versions in a shared `ext` section in
the root `build.gradle` file, and use those variables in any place declaring a
dependency.
