docs/JLBP-0021.md, before:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-21
permalink: /JLBP-21
---
# Upload artifacts to Maven Central

Developers expect to find artifacts in [Maven
Central](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/). All artifacts intended for
public consumption should be published in the [Maven Central repository
maintained by Sonatype](https://search.maven.org). Even if a project is
not built with Maven, its artifacts can and should be published to Maven
Central. From here the artifacts are mirrored to many different local and public
repositories.

While Maven can download artifacts from repositories other than Maven Central,
this requires extra configuration in the pom.xml or build.gradle files of 
projects that depend on these artifacts. Tools other than Maven itself
that use the repository system do not always read this information from
the pom.xml files and often cannot load artifacts that are not available
in Maven Central.

Developers who manually search for particular artifacts usually start at
Maven Central and sometimes don't look elsewhere.

Firewalls sometimes block access to Maven repositories. Access to Maven Central
is either specifically allowed, or a local mirror of Maven Central is provided
behind the firewall. However, these
special arrangements are not normally in place for other repositories.
Builds behind the firewall fail until the local developer convinces wary
network administrators to open another hole in the firewall.

It is far more convenient for library consumers when the library and all its
transitive dependencies are available in Maven Central.

Commit message:

additional points of failure (#1973)
@suztomo noticed this one yesterday when one of our builds failed flakily because it couldn't reach the Spring repository

docs/JLBP-0021.md, after:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-21
permalink: /JLBP-21
---
# Upload artifacts to Maven Central

Developers expect to find artifacts in [Maven
Central](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/). All artifacts intended for
public consumption should be published in the [Maven Central repository
maintained by Sonatype](https://search.maven.org). Even if a project is
not built with Maven, its artifacts can and should be published to Maven
Central. From here the artifacts are mirrored to many different local and public
repositories.

While Maven can download artifacts from repositories other than Maven Central,
this requires extra configuration in the pom.xml or build.gradle files of 
projects that depend on these artifacts. Tools other than Maven itself
that use the repository system do not always read this information from
the pom.xml files and often cannot load artifacts that are not available
in Maven Central.

Developers who manually search for particular artifacts usually start at
Maven Central and sometimes don't look elsewhere.

Firewalls sometimes block access to Maven repositories. Access to Maven Central
is either specifically allowed, or a local mirror of Maven Central is provided
behind the firewall. However, these
special arrangements are not normally in place for other repositories.
Builds behind the firewall fail until the local developer convinces wary
network administrators to open another hole in the firewall.

Maven repositories also become unreachable from time to time, breaking builds.
While this is true of all repositories incuding the central repository, almost all
projects already depend on libraries they load from Maven Central. Publishing
another artifact to Maven Central does not introduce an additional point of failure.
Publishing an artifact to some other repository does.

It is far more convenient for library consumers when the library and all its
transitive dependencies are available in Maven Central.
