docs/JLBP-0019.md, before:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-19
permalink: /JLBP-19
---
# Place each package in only one module

All classes from the same Java package must be in one and only
one JAR file in the classpath.
In Java 9 and later splitting the classes in a package across
more than one JAR file causes a compile time error when those classes are
required in module-info.java.
In OSGI environments such as Eclipse plugins, split packages
can lead to nondeterministic behavior.

If classes from the same package appear in Maven artifacts
with different group IDs or different artifact IDs,
it is easy to construct a classpath that
splits packages. This is a problem even if individual classes
do not overlap. For example, the google-cloud-vision Java API client
places protobufs in `com.google.api.grpc:proto-google-cloud-vision-v1`
and gRPC stubs in `com.google.api.grpc:grpc-google-cloud-vision-v1`.
Since both artifacts contain classes in the `com.google.cloud.vision.v1` package,
these two artifacts cannot be used together after Java 8.

All classes from a single package, whatever its sources, should
be published in a single Maven module with one group ID and one artifact ID.
Do not publish different classes in the same package in separate
Maven artifacts with different group IDs or artifact IDs.

For example, if the class `com.google.i18n.Localization` is in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities`, then `com.google.i18n.Strings`
and `com.google.i18n.Characters` must also be in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities`.

It is acceptable for a package and its subpackage to have different Maven coordinates.
For example, `com.google.i18n.Localization` can be in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities` while `com.google.i18n.charactersets.Latin1` is in
`com.google.foo:i18n-charactersets`.

It is also acceptable to bundle classes from both `com.google.i18n` and
`com.google.i18n.charactersets` in a single Maven module.
Similarly, it is fine to combine completely different packages such as
`com.google.foo` and `org.example.bar` in a single JAR file.
However, once any class from a package has been published under a certain
group ID and artifact ID, no other class in that package should ever use
a different group ID or artifact ID.

Finally, it is acceptable to publish the same package in Maven artifacts with
different versions as long as the group ID and artifact ID remain the same.
The Maven or Gradle dependency mediation algorithms ensure that no more than one
such JAR file is added to the classpath.

Commit message:

What does this mean to Gradle and Maven users?

docs/JLBP-0019.md, after:

---
jlbp:
  id: JLBP-19
permalink: /JLBP-19
---
# Place each package in only one module

Library developers should place all classes from the same Java package 
in one and only one JAR file.
Since Java 9, Java Platform Module System (JPMS) introduced the
"module path", which brings the reliable configuration and strong
encapsulation when declaring dependencies.
In a module path, splitting the classes in a package across
more than one JAR file causes a compile time error when those classes are
required in module-info.java.
In OSGI environments such as Eclipse plugins, split packages
can lead to nondeterministic behavior.

If classes from the same package appear in Maven artifacts
with different group IDs or different artifact IDs,
it is easy to construct a module path that splits packages.
This is a problem even if individual classes do not overlap.
For example, the google-cloud-vision Java API client
places protobufs in `com.google.api.grpc:proto-google-cloud-vision-v1`
and gRPC stubs in `com.google.api.grpc:grpc-google-cloud-vision-v1`.
Since both artifacts contain classes in the `com.google.cloud.vision.v1` package,
these two artifacts cannot be used together in a module path.

As a workaround, users can still place such JAR files in a class path,
instead of a module path.
In JPMS, the classes in the JAR files in the class path belong to the "unnamed module". 
However, users' classes cannot depend on the classes in the unnamed module.
This restriction prevents the users from using modules in JPMS.

All classes from a single package, whatever its sources, should
be published in a single Maven module with one group ID and one artifact ID.
Do not publish different classes in the same package in separate
Maven artifacts with different group IDs or artifact IDs.

For example, if the class `com.google.i18n.Localization` is in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities`, then `com.google.i18n.Strings`
and `com.google.i18n.Characters` must also be in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities`.

It is acceptable for a package and its subpackage to have different Maven coordinates.
For example, `com.google.i18n.Localization` can be in the artifact
`com.google.i18n:i18n-utilities` while `com.google.i18n.charactersets.Latin1` is in
`com.google.foo:i18n-charactersets`.

It is also acceptable to bundle classes from both `com.google.i18n` and
`com.google.i18n.charactersets` in a single Maven module.
Similarly, it is fine to combine completely different packages such as
`com.google.foo` and `org.example.bar` in a single JAR file.
However, once any class from a package has been published under a certain
group ID and artifact ID, no other class in that package should ever use
a different group ID or artifact ID.

Finally, it is acceptable to publish the same package in Maven artifacts with
different versions as long as the group ID and artifact ID remain the same.
The Maven or Gradle dependency mediation algorithms ensure that no more than one
such JAR file is added to the classpath.
