docs/README.md, before:

---
page.title: Google Best Practices for Java Libraries
permalink: /
---

# Google Best Practices for Java Libraries

Google Best Practices for Java Libraries are rules that minimize
problems for consumers of interconnected Java libraries. These practices come
from decades of aggregated experience in maintaining open source Java libraries
and are informed by many hard-learned lessons from mistakes that have been
made. We have found that following these rules results in higher quality
Java libraries with fewer dependency conflicts and other kinds of problems. The
list is open-ended, so new ones may be added from time to time.

- [Glossary](glossary.md): Terms used in the best practices and other places in
  cloud-opensource-java.

- [JLBP-1](JLBP-1.md): Minimize dependencies
- [JLBP-2](JLBP-2.md): Minimize API surface
- [JLBP-3](JLBP-3.md): Use semantic versioning
- [JLBP-4](JLBP-4.md): Avoid dependencies on unstable libraries and features
- [JLBP-5](JLBP-5.md): Avoid dependencies that overlap classes with other
  dependencies
- [JLBP-6](JLBP-6.md): Rename artifacts and packages together
- [JLBP-7](JLBP-7.md): Make breaking transitions easy
- [JLBP-8](JLBP-8.md): Advance widely used functionality to a stable version
- [JLBP-9](JLBP-9.md): Support the minimum Java version of your consumers
- [JLBP-10](JLBP-10.md): Maintain API stability as long as needed for consumers
- [JLBP-11](JLBP-11.md): Stay up to date with compatible dependencies
- [JLBP-12](JLBP-12.md): Make level of support and API stability clear
- [JLBP-13](JLBP-13.md): Quickly remove references to deprecated features in
   dependencies
- [JLBP-14](JLBP-14.md): Specify a single, overridable version of each dependency
- [JLBP-15](JLBP-15.md): Produce a BOM for multi-module projects
- [JLBP-16](JLBP-16.md): Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for
  consumers
- [JLBP-17](JLBP-17.md): Coordinate rollout of breaking changes
- [JLBP-18](JLBP-18.md): Only shade dependencies as a last resort
- [JLBP-19](JLBP-19.md): Place each package in only one module
- [JLBP-20](JLBP-20.md): Give each jar a module name

Commit message:

Adding links to introductory articles (#1235)

docs/README.md, after:

---
page.title: Google Best Practices for Java Libraries
permalink: /
---

# Google Best Practices for Java Libraries

Google Best Practices for Java Libraries are rules that minimize
problems for consumers of interconnected Java libraries. These practices come
from decades of aggregated experience in maintaining open source Java libraries
and are informed by many hard-learned lessons from mistakes that have been
made. We have found that following these rules results in higher quality
Java libraries with fewer dependency conflicts and other kinds of problems. The
list is open-ended, so new ones may be added from time to time.

## Best practices
- [JLBP-1](JLBP-1.md): Minimize dependencies
- [JLBP-2](JLBP-2.md): Minimize API surface
- [JLBP-3](JLBP-3.md): Use semantic versioning
- [JLBP-4](JLBP-4.md): Avoid dependencies on unstable libraries and features
- [JLBP-5](JLBP-5.md): Avoid dependencies that overlap classes with other
  dependencies
- [JLBP-6](JLBP-6.md): Rename artifacts and packages together
- [JLBP-7](JLBP-7.md): Make breaking transitions easy
- [JLBP-8](JLBP-8.md): Advance widely used functionality to a stable version
- [JLBP-9](JLBP-9.md): Support the minimum Java version of your consumers
- [JLBP-10](JLBP-10.md): Maintain API stability as long as needed for consumers
- [JLBP-11](JLBP-11.md): Stay up to date with compatible dependencies
- [JLBP-12](JLBP-12.md): Make level of support and API stability clear
- [JLBP-13](JLBP-13.md): Quickly remove references to deprecated features in
   dependencies
- [JLBP-14](JLBP-14.md): Specify a single, overridable version of each dependency
- [JLBP-15](JLBP-15.md): Produce a BOM for multi-module projects
- [JLBP-16](JLBP-16.md): Ensure upper version alignment of dependencies for
  consumers
- [JLBP-17](JLBP-17.md): Coordinate rollout of breaking changes
- [JLBP-18](JLBP-18.md): Only shade dependencies as a last resort
- [JLBP-19](JLBP-19.md): Place each package in only one module
- [JLBP-20](JLBP-20.md): Give each jar a module name

## Introductory material and reference
- [What is a diamond dependency conflict?](what-is-a-diamond-dependency-conflict.md)
- [Why doesn't the compiler catch diamond dependency
  conflicts?](why-doesnt-the-compiler-catch-diamond-dependency-conficts.md)
- [Glossary](glossary.md): Terms used in the best practices and other places in
  cloud-opensource-java.
